#+TITLE: Colors of Web

Hue-Saturation-Luminosity (HSL); and not just Red-Green-Blue (RGB).

HSL is about how we think about colors. You might have observed in some of the
CSS files that the colors are now specified as hsl(hue, saturation, luminosity)
instead of rgb(red, green, blue). I was going through various color guides and
have come up with this summary.

* Hue
Hue is the actual selection of color that we want. The other two values has
nothing to do with the shade selection. On a dial from 0° to 360° the color
varies from red, violet to red again i.e. the rainbow colors.

[[file:../images/hue_1.jpeg]]

I use YUI Color Picker to decide the colors on my pages and screens. You may use
any other, lots of them on GitHub.

[[file:../images/hue_2.jpeg]]

At 60° hue it is yellow and 240° blue. Once you have zeroed in on which shade
you want move on to the next parameter i.e. saturation.

* Saturation
I think of saturation in term of color’s age. A blue, or for the context any
colored, object getting older and older will fade in color and ultimately turn
grey.

[[file:../images/saturation_1.jpeg]]

[[file:../images/saturation_2.jpeg]]

It doesn’t matter which color is selected (hue). When the saturation is 0% it
will look grey. And when the saturation is 100% the color has full intensity;
like a brand new object.

* Luminosity

Have you ever entered in a darkroom, where no light can enter. Not very long
ago, photographers used to process the photos in darkroom. In a darkroom, in
absence of light all colors look same i.e. black.

Do you remember the analog brightness control in color televisions? If you turn
the knob full clockwise everything turns white.

[[file:../images/luminosity_1.jpeg]]

[[file:../images/luminosity_2.jpeg]]

I think of luminosity in the same way i.e. how much white light is falling on
the object. It does not matter what hue you have selected or what saturation you
have set the object will look black when luminosity is 0% i.e. no light and it
will look white when it is 100% i.e. full bright.

I find this analogy easier because thinking in terms of red-green-blue is not
very natural. We don’t know exactly what combination red, green and blue to use
to produce a certain color. But our mind can comprehend color, intensity and
brightness much easily.

I hope you enjoyed. And you will use hsl() in your next CSS.
